---
layout: post
title: "Journal 1: Week of April 11th"
category: beaglecar
date: 2014-04-10
---

This past week I have started the work to untether my car from the workbench 
(power supply and breadboards). I started by moving the motor and servo
controllers to perfboards and soldering them in place, taking them off the
breadboard. I also started implementing the GPS localization algorithms and
experimented with KML and generating maps.

## Perfboard

[picture here]

The perfboard allows me to seperate the inputs from the outputs and maybe even
use ribbon cable to link the various pins on the Beaglebone rather than have a
rats nest of individual hookup wires going from pin to pin.

I tried this a few weeks ago but unfortunately I purchased perfboards without
copper cladding. It turns out that these boards are designed for wirewrapping
techniques and other circuit designs. Since most of the main components that I 
am using are integrated circuits (IC's) and sensors, I needed the copper clad
boards. The copper wells allow the solder to firmly attach the board and the
components together and establish a solid electrical connection. Connections
between leads are made by bridging gaps with copious amounts of solder.

Since the perfboard I was using didn't have power strips built in, I had to make
strips to deliver power to the components. I have more than one part that needs
power so I couldn't just wire the power and ground pins point to point. Instead,
I stripped a short section of wire and used it to connect a trail for 5v, GND
and 3v3 of 4 wells each. This allows the power to be delivered to multiple
users and still have reasonable wire management.

[picture of the underside of the board]

## GPS ROS Node

To start testing the GPS functionality of my robot, and to see the readings 
more tangibly, I started recording locations in KML format and opening them in 
Google Earth. My ROS node simply recorded the average of a certain number of
readings as well as the individual readings themselves and saved them in a KML
file that Google Earth could read.

Prior to this I hadn't actually used my GPS in a while and after hunting around
online and in my notes for a couple hours I finally got it working again with
my Beaglebone running Ubuntu 13.04. I think there should be a better way to do
it but for now I have to export the UART pin I plan on using to the cape
manager's `slots` file before starting the GPS.

Normally the UART pins should register as `/dev/ttyO1` through `/dev/ttyO5`. For
me, I didn't have anything except `/dev/ttyO0`. Thankfully I found a [post](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/beagleboard/-kHyFqZwEF4/t1GG301XXIkJ)
on the BeagleBoard Google Groups page that pointed out how to enable UART.
(For me it was `BB-UART1` since those are the pins I'm using).

> `echo BB-UART2 > /sys/devices/bone_capemgr.????/slots`



_Thank you Jim Allard for giving me pointers on the navigation and localization
portion of my project_
