---
layout: post
title: "2018 Update: January, published late and incomplete"
author: Andrew Dai
tags: [2018, reflection, changelog, goals, travel, career]
date: 2018-05-17
---

_Published wayyyy too late, I forgot about this a long time ago (January 23 to be precise) and rediscovered it recently and thought it would be worth (for me) to post it for posterity (for me, later)_

"Days are slow, weeks fly by" - Nick

## General updates
- Ended part-time position at Square
- Started working part-time at Heap
- Hendrick's Gin in great!

More updates outlined in next section about my progress on goals and plans
outlined in 2017 Changelog.

## Progress on goals/plans

- Volunteering - None
  - TODO: plans?
- Lifestyle improvements
  - Better/more consistent sleep schedule
  - Running regularly, ~3 runs/~6 miles/week
  - Cooking and eating mostly vegetables (and pasta). Canned tomatoes (paste, crushed, whole, puree) are great! So are eggplants, cabbages, and squash.
  - Plans:
    - More running - build up to 10k (no longer aiming for 1/2 marathon in March)
    - TODO more
- Cooking more regularly and starting making sauerkraut
  - Plans:
    - More fermentation! (Kvass?)
    - Lox!
    - Add pancakes/crepes to regular rotation
- Technical goals
  - Starting to use/learn emacs orgmode
  - Physics 2 homework is a lot easier with Jupyter Notebooks
  - TODO: plan to start on a project (adding to Orgzly?, quantified self with orgmode?)
- Travel! - weekend trip to Nashville, planning spring break roadtrip across the South
- Read more!
  - Finished _Fahrenheit 451_
  - TODO: Plans?
- Write more!
  - Posted some quotes from readings and my thoughts about them
  - Writing this blog post in long form
  - Plans:
    - Submit an application to [NYTimes The Edit](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/jobs/nyt-job-theedit-young-writers.html)?
